FF136 WebRTC AV1, H264 codec support for simulcast (#38079)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/webrtc_api/protocols/index.md

- Specification: {{RFC(8866, "SDP: Session Description Protocol")}}
- [IANA registry of SDP parameters](https://www.iana.org/assignments/sip-parameters/sip-parameters.xhtml)

> ## Multi-party video conferencing

Author: Hi @Pehrsons 

Thanks for all the information in the thread https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/38079/files#r1959335656

I decided to move the information into the "WebRTC Protocols" page - I think it gives it a bit more visibility - also allowing a more natural path into information about codecs. 
It is a little repetitive, but I wanted to clearly separate SVC, simulcast, and the DD header - this allows me now to link to the simulcast section (say) whenever it is mentioned.

Can you please check this is OK / to your satisfaction? Sorry to keep modifying.

Reviewer: LGTM! Two nits is all I have.

The SFM forwards the most suitable stream to each recipient based on their network conditions and device capabilities.

The SFM relies on the ability to determine frame dependency relationships, such as between a chain of interframes back to the last keyframe, in order to forward packets and switch simulcast layers without a receiver noticing.

VP8 and VP9 codecs can include frame dependency information in the VP8 payload descriptor and VP9 payload descriptor, respectively.
For the AV1 codec the information is sent in the [Dependency Descriptor (DD) RTP Header Extension](#dependency_descriptor_rtp_header_extension).

Recent browser implementations commonly use the DD header for all codecs, as it is codec-agnostic, which can simply the SFM implementation.
In addition, because it is a part of the RTP header rather than the payload, it can be used in end-to-end encryption scenarios.

### Scalable video coding

[Scalable Video Coding (SVC)](https://www.w3.org/TR/webrtc-svc/) encodes a video source in a single stream, with multiple layers that can be selectively decoded to obtain video with particular resolutions, bitrate, or quality.

> An SMF can forward a subset of the layers in order to send a stream that is appropriate for each recipient's network and device.

Reviewer: s/SMF/SFM/

Note that the dependencies are much more complicated than needed to for selecting streams to forward when using simulcast (see the [dependency diagrams](https://www.w3.org/TR/webrtc-svc/#dependencydiagrams*) in the SVC specification for a "flavor" of the complexity).

> The SVC stream consists of a base layer that provides a minimum level of quality, and may include a number of enhancement layers that allow varying frame rates ("temporal scalability"), increased resolution ("spatial scalability"), and/or higher quality and bitrate ("quality scalability").

Reviewer: I see both VP9 and AV1 have "quality scalability" layers, in practice spatial layers at the same resolution but different bitrate. However it seems to not be available through the w3c webrtc-svc spec. The modes offered there are of the format `LxTy` where each spatial (the `L`) layer has a 2:1 resolution ratio, and `LxTyh` where each spatial layer has a 1.5:1 resolution ratio. There is no 1:1 ratio mode. Not sure if we should mention "quality scalability" here then.

Author: I will take your lead on this one!

```suggestion
The SVC stream consists of a base layer that provides a minimum level of quality, and may include a number of enhancement layers that allow varying frame rates ("temporal scalability"), increased resolution ("spatial scalability"), and the same resolution at different bitrates.
```

The VP8 codec only supports temporal layers, while VP9 supports both temporal and spatial layers.

VP8 and VP9 codecs can include frame dependency information in the VP8 payload descriptor and VP9 payload descriptor, respectively.
For the AV1 codec the information is sent in the [Dependency Descriptor (DD) RTP Header Extension](#dependency_descriptor_rtp_header_extension).

> As for simulcast, recent browser implementations commonly use the DD header for all codecs that support SVC, in order to simply the SFM implementation, and because it supports end-to-end encryption scenarios.
> 
> ### Dependency Descriptor RTP Header Extension

Author: ```suggestion
As for simulcast, recent browser implementations commonly use the DD header for all codecs that support SVC, in order to simply the SFM implementation, and because it supports end-to-end encryption scenarios.

Chrome 111 and later supports SVC.
Firefox does not support SVC at the time of writing (around FF136).

### Dependency Descriptor RTP Header Extension
```

VP8 and VP9 codecs can include frame dependency information in the VP8 payload descriptor and VP9 payload descriptor, respectively.
For the AV1 codec the information is sent in the [Dependency Descriptor (DD) RTP Header Extension](#dependency_descriptor_rtp_header_extension).

As for simulcast, recent browser implementations commonly use the DD header for all codecs that support SVC, in order to simply the SFM implementation, and because it supports end-to-end encryption scenarios.

Chrome 111 and later supports SVC.
Firefox does not support SVC at the time of writing (around FF136).

### Dependency Descriptor RTP Header Extension

The [Dependency Descriptor (DD) RTP Header Extension](https://aomediacodec.github.io/av1-rtp-spec/#43-dependency-descriptor-rtp-header-extension), defined in the specification _RTP Payload Format For AV1 (v1.0)_, provides a codec-agnostic, flexible, efficient, and extensible way to describe the relationships between frames in a multi-layered video stream.

These can be used by an SFM to select and forward packets associated with the layers intended for a recipient.

> As the header is a true extension it is not part of the payload, and hence is still available to the SFM in end-to-end encryption (E2EE) scenarios.
> 
> ### Codecs supported by WebRTC

Author: ```suggestion
As the header is a true extension it is not part of the payload, and hence is still available to the SFM in end-to-end encryption (E2EE) scenarios.

Chrome and Firefox (136+) support the DD header.

### Codecs supported by WebRTC
```
